#summary About this project and how to start

= Introduction =

BioNLP-Event Extraction jointly detecting triggers and event structures. The implementation is based on FACTORIE.

More information can be found in the paper http://www.roman-klinger.de/home/publications/klinger11interevent.pdf

Roman Klinger, Sebastian Riedel, and Andrew McCallum. Inter-Event Dependencies support Event Extraction from Biomedical Literature. In Mining Complex Entities from Network and Biomedical Data (MIND), European Conference on Machine Learning and Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases (ECML PKDD), 2011.

= How to start =

Before you start, be sure you have a Unix system, Java and Maven 2 installed. This is tested on Mac OS X 10.7, Ubuntu 12.04, and Scientific Linux. With Ubuntu, it does not work when the home folder is encrypted as file names will be too long in the compilation process (a bug in Ubuntu).

In short:
For the latest version:
svn checkout http://factee.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ factee
For the initial version:
wget http://code.google.com/p/factee/downloads/detail?name=factee-20121222.tar.gz ; tar xzf factee-20121222.tar.gz

Then continue:
cd factee
wget http://code.google.com/p/factee/downloads/detail?name=3rdparty.tar.gz
wget http://code.google.com/p/factee/downloads/detail?name=data.tar.gz
tar xzf data.tar.gz
tar xzf 3rdparty.tar.gz
mvn compile
mvn assembly:assembly
bin/run.sh init/sample.ini

In long:
To get the system running, you need to get the source code first. The latest version can be checked out by
svn checkout http://factee.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ factee

If you prefer the initial version (which is most similar to the paper), you could just check out the first version from SVN or do
wget http://code.google.com/p/factee/downloads/detail?name=factee-20121222.tar.gz
tar xzf factee-20121222.tar.gz

Then change to the project folder
cd factee

Now you probably want to have all libraries which are needed for compilation. Get them and unpack them:
wget http://code.google.com/p/factee/downloads/detail?name=3rdparty.tar.gz
tar xzf 3rdparty.tar.gz

This makes a folder 3rdparty.

To get started easily, get the data in a format which is prepared for this project and unpack it:
wget http://code.google.com/p/factee/downloads/detail?name=data.tar.gz
tar xzf data.tar.gz

You can remove the tarballs now if you wish:
rm data.tar.gz 3rdparty.tar.gz
rm ../factee-20121222.tar.gz
The last step is not needed if you checked out from SVN.

Now compile and build a jar file:
mvn compile
mvn assembly:assembly

Now you are ready to run, you may need to adapt some paths in the run.sh file. This is just calling Java without making use of Scala or Maven. Of course you can use the Maven plugin to run the system as well.
Similarly, you may want to adapt the ini file to your environment, but it should run as is on most systems.

bin/run.sh init/sample.ini
